.TH MCX 1 "March 2026" "MaxCompression 2.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mcx \- high\-ratio lossless data compression tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcx compress
[\fB\-l\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-\-fast\fR|\fB\-\-default\fR|\fB\-\-best\fR]
[\fB\-\-strategy\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fIBYTES\fR]
[\fB\-\-verify\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-\-estimate\fR]
[\fB\-\-level\-scan\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-trials\fR]
[\fB\-\-filter\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-split\fR \fISIZE\fR]
[\fB\-\-preserve\-mtime\fR]
[\fB\-\-keep\-broken\fR]
[\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIGLOB\fR]
[\fB\-\-decompress\-check\fR]
[\fB\-\-priority\fR \fIMODE\fR]
[\fB\-\-adaptive\-level\fR]
[\fB\-\-memory\-limit\fR \fISIZE\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-k\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR]
\fIINPUT\fR
.br
.B mcx decompress
[\fB\-\-verify\fR]
[\fB\-\-preserve\-mtime\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-k\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR]
\fIINPUT\fR
.br
.B mcx upgrade
[\fB\-l\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-\-in\-place\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR]
\fIINPUT.mcx\fR
.br
.B mcx pipe
[\fB\-l\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
.br
.B mcx info
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
[\fB\-\-blocks\fR]
[\fB\-\-entropy\fR]
\fIINPUT\fR
.br
.B mcx cat
\fIINPUT\fR
.br
.B mcx verify
\fIINPUT\fR [\fIORIGINAL\fR]
.br
.B mcx diff
\fIFILE1\fR \fIFILE2\fR
.br
.B mcx stat
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
\fIINPUT\fR
.br
.B mcx hash
\fIFILE\fR ...
.br
.B mcx checksum
\fIFILE.mcx\fR ...
.br
.B mcx ls
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
\fIFILE\fR ...
.br
.B mcx bench
[\fB\-l\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-\-compare\fR]
[\fB\-\-csv\fR]
[\fB\-\-warmup\fR]
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
[\fB\-\-decode\-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-iterations\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-size\fR \fISIZE\fR]
[\fB\-\-memory\fR]
[\fB\-\-all\-levels\fR]
[\fB\-\-ratio\-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-median\fR]
[\fB\-\-percentile\fR]
[\fB\-\-histogram\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-brief\fR]
[\fB\-\-repeat\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-warmup\-iterations\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-cold\fR]
[\fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-compare\-self\fR \fIREF\fR]
[\fB\-\-delta\fR \fIBASELINE\fR]
[\fB\-\-save\-baseline\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-diff\fR \fIBASELINE\fR]
[\fB\-\-profile\fR]
\fIINPUT\fR
.br
.B mcx test
.br
.B mcx version
[\fB\-\-build\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mcx
compresses and decompresses files using the MaxCompression (MCX) format.
It achieves compression ratios competitive with xz/LZMA2 while beating
bzip2 on all file types. All compression is lossless.
.PP
MCX uses a hybrid approach: BWT (Burrows\-Wheeler Transform) for text
and structured data, LZRC (LZ + Range Coder) for binary archives.
Smart detection at level 20 automatically selects the best strategy.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B compress
Compress a file. Output defaults to \fIINPUT\fR.mcx.
Use \fB\-\-strategy\fR to force a specific compression strategy,
\fB\-\-block\-size\fR to override default BWT block size,
\fB\-\-verify\fR to roundtrip-verify after compressing,
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR to predict strategy/level without compressing,
or \fB\-\-estimate\fR for a fast compressed size estimate.
.TP
.B decompress
Decompress an MCX file. Output defaults to \fIINPUT\fR with .mcx removed.
Use \fB\-\-verify\fR to re\-compress and verify the roundtrip.
.TP
.B upgrade
Re\-compress an MCX file at a different level (decompress + recompress
in one step). Uses \fB\-\-in\-place\fR to overwrite the input file directly.
.TP
.B pipe
Streaming mode: compress stdin to stdout (default) or decompress with
\fB\-d\fR. Works like \fBgzip\fR without arguments.
.TP
.B info
Display frame metadata (size, level, strategy, block count, per\-block
genome configuration) without decompressing. Use \fB\-\-json\fR for
machine\-readable output. Use \fB\-\-blocks\fR for per\-block details
(offset, size, strategy, flags) in tabular format.
.TP
.B cat
Decompress to stdout (equivalent to \fBdecompress \-c\fR).
.TP
.B stat
Display file statistics without compressing: entropy, byte distribution,
run\-length analysis, and content type detection. Use \fB\-\-json\fR
for machine\-readable output.
.TP
.B hash
Show CRC32 and FNV\-1a 64\-bit hashes of decompressed content from MCX
files, or of raw content for non\-MCX files.
.TP
.B checksum
Show CRC32 of the compressed MCX file itself for integrity checking.
.TP
.B verify
Decompress and verify integrity. Optionally compare against an original file.
.TP
.B diff
Compare two compressed MCX files (sizes, ratios, strategies). Shows
byte\-level hex dump when files differ.
.TP
.B ls
List compressed MCX files in a table (compressed size, original size,
ratio, level, strategy). Use \fB\-\-json\fR for machine\-readable output.
Aliases: \fBlist\fR.
.TP
.B bench
Benchmark compression on a file or directory across all major levels.
When the input is a directory, each file is benchmarked individually.
Use \fB\-\-exclude\fR to skip files matching a glob pattern.
Use \fB\-l\fR for a specific level, \fB\-\-compare\fR to include
gzip/bzip2/xz results, \fB\-\-csv\fR for CSV output,
\fB\-\-warmup\fR to run one warmup iteration before timing,
\fB\-\-json\fR for machine\-readable JSON output,
\fB\-\-decode\-only\fR to benchmark decompression only,
\fB\-\-iterations\fR N to run N iterations and average,
and \fB\-\-size\fR to benchmark on a truncated prefix of the input.
Aliases: \fBcompare\fR.
.TP
.B test
Run built\-in self\-tests (7 patterns \[mu] 5 levels = 35 roundtrip tests).
.TP
.B version
Print version string. Use \fB\-\-build\fR for detailed build information
(compiler, flags, OpenMP status, SIMD support).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-level =\fILEVEL\fR
Compression level (1\-26). Default: 3.
.RS
.TP
.B 1\-3
Fast mode (LZ77 greedy + rANS). Speed: 15\-50 MB/s.
.TP
.B 4\-6
Balanced mode (LZ\-HC + rANS). Speed: 5\-15 MB/s.
.TP
.B 7\-9
High ratio (LZ\-HC + adaptive arithmetic). Speed: 3\-10 MB/s.
.TP
.B 10\-12
BWT mode (BWT + genome optimizer + multi\-table rANS). Speed: 1\-5 MB/s.
.TP
.B 13\-20
Smart mode (auto\-selects best strategy, multi\-trial). Speed: 0.1\-0.5 MB/s.
.TP
.B 24
LZRC fast (hash chain match finder). Speed: 1\-3 MB/s.
.TP
.B 26
LZRC best (binary tree, 64MB window). Speed: 0.3\-1 MB/s.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-fast ", " \-1
Shortcut for \fB\-l 3\fR (fast compression).
.TP
.BR \-\-default ", " \-6
Shortcut for \fB\-l 6\fR (balanced speed/ratio).
.TP
.BR \-\-best ", " \-9
Shortcut for \fB\-l 20\fR (maximum compression).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Overwrite existing output files without prompting.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep
Keep original file after compression/decompression. This is the
default behavior (MCX never deletes source files). Provided for
compatibility with gzip/xz conventions.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-stdout
Write output to stdout instead of a file. Implies \fB\-q\fR.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output =\fIFILE\fR
Output file path. If not specified, appends .mcx for compression
or removes .mcx for decompression.
.TP
.BR \-\-delete
Delete source file after successful compression or decompression.
By default, source files are kept.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recurse into directories. For compression, compresses all files
in the directory tree (skipping .mcx files). For decompression,
processes all .mcx files found recursively.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-threads =\fIN\fR
Use N threads for compression (default: auto\-detect).
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all non\-error output. Useful for scripts and pipelines.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show extra information (peak memory usage during compress/decompress).
.TP
.BR \-\-verify
For \fBcompress\fR: decompress and compare after compressing.
For \fBdecompress\fR: re\-compress and re\-decompress to verify roundtrip.
.TP
.BR \-\-strategy =\fINAME\fR
Force a specific compression strategy (lz, bwt, lzrc, stride) instead of auto\-detect.
.TP
.BR \-\-block\-size =\fIBYTES\fR
Override default block size for BWT levels. Accepts suffixes: K, M (e.g. 4M).
Use \fBauto\fR to automatically select block size based on input size:
<1MB→256KB, <16MB→4MB, <128MB→16MB, ≥128MB→64MB.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Analyze and print predicted strategy/level without actually compressing.
.TP
.BR \-\-estimate
Report estimated compressed size without full compression (faster than
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-level\-scan
Try levels L1\-L12 and automatically pick the one with the best
compression ratio. Slower than a single level but finds the optimal
speed/ratio tradeoff.
.TP
.BR \-\-level\-range =\fIL\fRstart\fB\-L\fRend
Try a contiguous range of levels and pick the one with the best
compression ratio (e.g. \fB\-\-level\-range L1\-L6\fR or
\fB\-\-level\-range L6\-L12\fR). More control than \fB\-\-level\-scan\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-filter =\fINAME\fR
Force a specific preprocessing filter instead of auto\-detect.
Valid values: \fBdelta\fR (sorted integer sequences), \fBnibble\fR
(structured binary data), \fBnone\fR (disable preprocessing).
.TP
.BR \-\-fast\-decode
Prefer faster\-decoding entropy coders (rANS over Adaptive AC) even at
slight ratio cost. Useful when decompress speed matters more than maximum
compression. For BWT blocks, also skips the CM\-rANS trial (prefer simpler
rANS). Recommended when serving compressed data for real\-time consumption.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-trials
Skip multi\-strategy trial at L20+ (use first matching strategy).
Faster but may miss the optimal strategy for mixed\-content files.
.TP
.BR \-\-min\-ratio =\fIN\fR
For \fBcompress\fR: only write the compressed output if the achieved
compression ratio is at least \fIN\fR (e.g. \fB\-\-min\-ratio 1.5\fR).
If the ratio is below the threshold, the output file is not created
and a message is printed. Useful for skipping incompressible files.
.TP
.BR \-\-in\-place ", " \-i
For \fBupgrade\fR: overwrite the input file directly (cannot combine with \fB\-o\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-compare
For \fBbench\fR: also run gzip, bzip2, and xz for comparison.
.TP
.BR \-\-csv
For \fBbench\fR: output results in CSV format for automated collection.
.TP
.BR \-\-warmup
For \fBbench\fR: run one warmup iteration before timing to reduce
cold\-cache variance in benchmark results. See also \fB\-\-warmup\-iterations\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-warmup\-iterations =\fIN\fR
For \fBbench\fR: run \fIN\fR warmup iterations instead of the default 1.
Useful for systems with variable turbo boost or SSD caching where a
single warmup may not be sufficient for stable cold\-start elimination.
.TP
.BR \-\-cold
For \fBbench\fR: flush filesystem cache between each compress/decompress
iteration using \fBsync\fR(2) and writing to
\fI/proc/sys/vm/drop_caches\fR. Provides realistic cold\-cache
benchmarks. Linux only, requires root privileges. Falls back silently
if cache flushing is not available.
.TP
.BR \-\-output =\fIFILE\fR
For \fBbench\fR: write benchmark results to \fIFILE\fR in append mode.
Useful for collecting results over time across multiple runs or builds.
Each invocation appends to the file without overwriting existing content.
.TP
.BR \-\-compare\-self =\fIREF\fR
For \fBbench\fR: compress input at the specified level (default L12) and
compare the compressed size against a reference \fI.mcx\fR file. Reports
MATCH (identical size), IMPROVED (smaller), or REGRESSION (larger) with
byte delta and percentage. Returns exit code 1 on regression, making it
suitable for CI pipelines to detect compression ratio regressions.
.TP
.BR \-\-delta =\fIBASELINE\fR
For \fBbench\fR: multi\-level regression detection. On first run, saves
compressed sizes to \fIBASELINE\fR (format: \fIL<N> <bytes>\fR per line).
On subsequent runs, compares current sizes against baseline at each level
(L1/L3/L6/L9/L12 by default, or specific level with \fB\-l\fR). Shows byte
delta and percentage per level. Returns exit code 1 on any regression.
.TP
.BR \-\-save\-baseline =\fIFILE\fR
For \fBbench\fR: explicitly save current compressed sizes to \fIFILE\fR.
Unlike \fB\-\-delta\fR which auto\-saves on first run and compares on
subsequent runs, \fB\-\-save\-baseline\fR always overwrites the file.
Output format is compatible with \fB\-\-delta\fR for subsequent comparisons.
.TP
.BR \-\-diff =\fIBASELINE\fR
For \fBbench\fR: like \fB\-\-delta\fR but also measures and compares
compress/decompress speeds alongside ratio. Baseline format includes
timing data (\fIL<N> <bytes> <comp_mbs> <dec_mbs>\fR). Speed variance
of 5\-10% between runs is normal due to system load and thermals.
Returns exit code 1 on ratio regression.
.TP
.BR \-\-profile
For \fBbench\fR: show per\-phase time breakdown for each block during
compress and decompress. Shows BWT forward, MTF+RLE encode, and entropy
encode times (with percentages) for compression, and rANS decode,
RLE2 decode, MTF decode, and BWT inverse times for decompression.
Useful for identifying performance bottlenecks.
.TP
.BR \-\-blocks
For \fBinfo\fR: show per\-block details (offset, compressed size,
original size, strategy, flags) in tabular format.
.TP
.BR \-\-entropy
For \fBinfo\fR: decompress the file and compute Shannon entropy of the
original data. Displays bits/byte and percentage of maximum (8.0 bits/byte).
Requires enough memory to hold the decompressed data (up to 512MB).
.TP
.BR \-\-json
For \fBinfo\fR, \fBstat\fR, \fBls\fR, \fBbench\fR: machine\-readable JSON output.
.TP
.BR \-\-decode\-only
For \fBbench\fR: pre\-compress once (not timed), then benchmark
decompression only. Runs multiple iterations (default 3, or set with
\fB\-\-iterations\fR) and averages the result.
.TP
.BR \-\-iterations =\fIN\fR
For \fBbench\fR: run N compress/decompress iterations and average
the timing. Default: 1 (or 3 when \fB\-\-decode\-only\fR is used).
.TP
.BR \-\-size =\fISIZE\fR
For \fBbench\fR: benchmark on a truncated prefix of the input file.
Accepts suffixes: K, M (e.g. \fB\-\-size 64K\fR). Useful for quick
tests on large files.
.TP
.BR \-\-memory
For \fBbench\fR: report peak RSS (resident set size) memory usage
alongside speed and compression ratio. Useful for evaluating
memory/performance tradeoffs across levels.
.TP
.BR \-\-all\-levels
For \fBbench\fR: benchmark every level from 1 to 26 instead of the
default representative subset (1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 20, 24, 26).
.TP
.BR \-\-ratio\-only
For \fBbench\fR: only measure compression ratio, skip timing entirely.
Faster for ratio comparisons across levels. No speed columns in output.
.TP
.BR \-\-sort =\fIMODE\fR
For \fBbench\fR: sort output by the given mode. Valid values:
\fBratio\fR (best compression first), \fBspeed\fR (fastest first),
\fBlevel\fR (default, ascending level number).
.TP
.BR \-\-top =\fIN\fR
For \fBbench\fR: only show the top N results by compression ratio.
Useful with \fB\-\-all\-levels\fR to quickly see the best levels.
.TP
.BR \-\-atomic
For \fBcompress\fR: write compressed output to a temporary file first,
then rename to the final path on success. Provides crash-safe writes —
if compression fails or is interrupted, no partial output remains.
.TP
.BR \-\-split =\fISIZE\fR
For \fBcompress\fR: split compressed output into chunks of the given
size (e.g. \fB\-\-split 10M\fR). Output files are named with a numeric
suffix (.000, .001, etc.). Useful for large archives.
.TP
.BR \-\-preserve\-mtime
For \fBcompress\fR and \fBdecompress\fR: set the output file's
modification time to match the input file's mtime. Useful for
backup and archival workflows.
.TP
.BR \-\-median
For \fBbench\fR: report median instead of mean when \fB\-\-iterations\fR > 1.
More robust to outliers than arithmetic mean.
.TP
.BR \-\-percentile
For \fBbench\fR: report p5/p50/p95 speed distribution when
\fB\-\-iterations\fR >= 5. Shows the 5th, 50th (median), and 95th
percentile of compress and decompress speeds. Useful for understanding
benchmark variance.
.TP
.BR \-\-histogram
For \fBbench\fR: show compressed size distribution across block sizes.
Useful for analyzing adaptive block behavior and understanding how
different block sizes affect compression ratio.
.TP
.BR \-\-format =\fIFORMAT\fR
For \fBbench\fR: choose output format. Valid values: \fBtable\fR (default),
\fBcsv\fR, \fBjson\fR, or \fBmarkdown\fR. Unifies the older \fB\-\-csv\fR and
\fB\-\-json\fR flags, which are still accepted as aliases.
.TP
.BR \-\-brief
For \fBbench\fR: compact one\-line\-per\-level output. Example:
\fBL6: 2.38x 6.4/87.2 MB/s\fR. Useful for scripting and quick
comparisons.
.TP
.BR \-\-worst =\fIN\fR
For \fBbench\fR: only show the worst N results by compression ratio.
Useful for identifying hard\-to\-compress files in a batch. Opposite
of \fB\-\-top\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-filter =\fINAME\fR
For \fBbench\fR: benchmark with a forced preprocessing filter to measure
filter impact on specific data. Valid values: \fBdelta\fR, \fBnibble\fR,
\fBnone\fR. Passes the filter to the compressor for each benchmark run.
.TP
.BR \-\-exclude =\fIGLOB\fR
For \fBcompress \-r\fR and \fBbench\fR (directory input): skip files
matching the given glob pattern.
Example: \fB\-\-exclude '*.log'\fR skips all .log files. Uses
\fBfnmatch\fR(3) pattern matching on filenames (not paths).
For bench, when the input is a directory, each file is benchmarked
individually and results are shown per file.
.TP
.BR \-\-aggregate
For \fBbench\fR (directory input): show aggregate totals (total input
size, total output size, overall compression ratio) alongside per\-file
results. Useful for comparing overall performance across compressors on
a corpus.
.TP
.BR \-\-decompress\-check
For \fBcompress\fR: after compressing, decompress the output in\-memory
and verify the CRC matches the original data. Stronger than \fB\-\-verify\fR
(which re\-compresses): this catches encoder bugs that produce valid but
incorrect compressed streams.
.TP
.BR \-\-repeat =\fIN\fR
For \fBbench\fR: run the entire benchmark N times and show min/max/avg
across all runs. More robust than \fB\-\-iterations\fR (which averages
within a single run) for detecting system\-level variance such as
thermals, background load, or CPU frequency scaling.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-header
For \fBbench\fR: suppress column headers in output. Useful for piping
benchmark results into other tools. Combines well with \fB\-\-brief\fR for
minimal machine\-readable output.
.TP
.BR \-\-priority =\fIMODE\fR
For \fBcompress\fR: select optimization goal that adjusts internal
parameters. Valid values: \fBspeed\fR (enables \fB\-\-fast\-decode\fR +
\fB\-\-no\-trials\fR), \fBratio\fR (default behavior), \fBbalanced\fR
(enables \fB\-\-fast\-decode\fR only). Shortcut for combining multiple flags.
.TP
.BR \-\-adaptive\-level
For \fBcompress\fR: analyze file entropy and auto\-select the optimal
compression level. Entropy thresholds: >7.5 bits/byte selects L1
(near\-random data), >7.0 selects L3, >6.0 selects L6, and ≤6.0
selects L12 (text/structured data). Uses O(n) Shannon entropy
calculation — instant analysis, no trial compression needed.
Overrides \fB\-l\fR if specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-memory\-limit =\fISIZE\fR
For \fBcompress\fR: cap peak memory usage by adjusting BWT block size.
Calculates block_size = (\fISIZE\fR \- 32MB overhead) / 10, since BWT
peak RSS ≈ block_size × 10 (suffix array + LF\-mapping). Minimum 64M.
Accepts K/M/G suffixes. Example: \fB\-\-memory\-limit 256M\fR → 22MB blocks.
.TP
.BR \-\-keep\-broken
For \fBcompress\fR: keep partial output on error instead of deleting.
Useful for debugging compression failures. By default, partial output
is removed when compression encounters an error.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version string and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage summary and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Compress at maximum level:
.B mcx compress \-\-best data.bin
.TP
Compress with specific level:
.B mcx compress \-l 12 data.bin \-o data.mcx
.TP
Decompress:
.B mcx decompress data.mcx
.TP
Fast compression (level 3):
.B mcx compress \-\-fast largefile.tar
.TP
Force overwrite:
.B mcx compress \-f \-l 20 data.bin
.TP
Compress to stdout:
.B mcx compress \-c data.bin > data.mcx
.TP
Show file info:
.B mcx info data.mcx
.TP
Benchmark all levels:
.B mcx bench data.bin
.TP
Verify integrity:
.B mcx verify data.mcx
.TP
Verify against original:
.B mcx verify data.mcx original.bin
.TP
Compare two compressed files:
.B mcx diff old.mcx new.mcx
.TP
Multi-file compress:
.B mcx compress *.txt
.TP
Decompress with alias:
.B mcx x data.mcx
.TP
Upgrade to higher level:
.B mcx upgrade \-l 12 \-\-in\-place data.mcx
.TP
Pipe mode (like gzip):
.B cat data.bin | mcx pipe | mcx pipe \-d > data_roundtrip.bin
.TP
Decompress with verification:
.B mcx decompress \-\-verify data.mcx
.TP
Benchmark with CSV:
.B mcx bench \-\-csv \-\-compare data.bin > results.csv
.TP
Estimate compressed size:
.B mcx compress \-\-estimate data.bin
.SH COMPRESSION RATIOS
Silesia benchmark corpus (202 MB), 12 files:
.PP
.TS
l l l l.
Tool	Ratio	vs gzip	Win rate
_
mcx L20	4.35\[mu]	+28%	\(em
bzip2 \-9	3.89\[mu]	+20%	MCX 12/12
xz \-9	4.34\[mu]	+28%	MCX 9/12
gzip \-9	3.13\[mu]	\(em	MCX 12/12
.TE
.PP
MCX beats bzip2 on all 12 Silesia files and xz on 9 of 12.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (file not found, permission denied, invalid level, corrupt file, I/O error).
.SH FILES
MCX files use the
.B .mcx
extension. The format uses a 16\-byte frame header with magic bytes,
version, compression level, strategy, and original file size.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/SamDreamsMaker/Max\-Compression/issues>.
.SH AUTHOR
Dreams\-Makers Studio <contact@dreams\-makers.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gzip (1),
.BR bzip2 (1),
.BR xz (1),
.BR zstd (1)
.SH LICENSE
GPL\-3.0. See LICENSE file for details.
